[Music]
Hi listeners, welcome back to No Priors.
Today I'm here with Dylan Patel, the
chief analyst at Semi Analysis, a
leading source for anyone interested in
chips and AI infrastructure. We talk
about open source models, the
bottlenecks to building a data center
the size of Manhattan, geopolitics, and
poker as a tell for entrepreneurship.
Welcome, Dylan. Dylan, thank you so much
for being here.
>> Thank you for having me.
>> I've been really looking forward to this
conversation. And um you're such a deep
thinker about the space. And then also
it's very odd you clearly have the
Samsung watch.
>> Yeah. I I got the I got the Blig the
laptop,
>> the fold. Yeah. Yeah.
>> Tell me more.
>> So part of the origin story is that I
was moderating forms when I was a child
and my dad first Android phone was the
Droid, right? Okay. And for some reason,
I was obsessed with like messing with
it, like rooting it, like underclocking
it, improving the battery life, all
these things because when we went on a
road trip, there's nothing to do besides
like mess around on this phone. So, I
posted so much about Android that I
became a moderator r/android on Reddit
and and like many other subreddits
related to hardware and Nvidia and Intel
and all this stuff. But because of that,
I've just always had Android. Now, I've
had work iPhones before, but I just
really love Android. that it's like if
you're going to like technology, I'm not
like someone who pushes it, but like get
the best stuff. So, I have like the
ultra Samsung watch, which I think looks
cool, and the the foldy phone, right?
It's fun. It's obviously different and
weird. No, no iMessage is is attractive.
>> What does it dominate at? What is it
better at?
>> Um,
>> besides the openness of like the
hackability,
>> I don't even hack that much stuff
anymore, right? It's like what do you
use your phone for? I think I think the
main thing is like you can have like
Slack and an email up on two different
parts of your phone. I think that's
probably the main thing. Or like you can
actually use like
>> a spreadsheet on a folding phone. You
cannot use a spreadsheet on a regular
phone. Okay.
>> And that's not even an Android thing.
Like Apple's folding phone next year
will be able to do that just fine. And
I'll have no argument then. Yeah.
>> But I just like it. You know, people
people have their preferences. People
are creatures of habit.
>> You got to look at the GPU purchasing
forecast. Yes. On a sheet on your phone.
>> Yes, I do. I do. No. Like it's like
someone's telling you numbers. You're
like, "Wait, this is like slightly
different than my number." Right. Like
>> Okay. So, we have a week of big rumored
announcements coming up. Tell me your
like reaction to the OpenAI open source
model.
>> In theory, it's going to be amazing,
right? Like I assume this is releasing
after it's released or
>> Yes.
>> So, that's okay. The open source model
is amazing, guys. Like, I think the
world is going to be really like shocked
and excited. It's the first time
America's had the best open source model
in six months, nine months, a year.
Llama 3.1 405b was the last time we had
the best model and then Mishrol took
over for a little bit if I recall
correctly and then the Chinese labs have
been dominating for the last like six
nine months right so it'll be
interesting it'll also be funny because
like the open source model probably
won't be the best for just regular chat
because it is like more reasoning
focused and all these things but it'll
be really good at code and so I'm
excited for that yeah like tool use
although that's like going to be
confusing like how do you use the tools
if you don't have access to open tool
use stuff, but the model is trained to
do so. That'll be interesting for people
to figure out. I think the last thing is
like the way they're rolling it out is
really interesting. They accidentally
leaked all the weights, but no one in
the open source has figured out how to
actually run inference on it because
there's just some weird stuff in the
model with the architecture like for bit
and like the biases and all this other
stuff. But what's interesting is other
companies drop the model weights and say
go make your own inference
implementation. But OpenAI is like
actually like dropping the model weights
and like all these custom kernels for
people to implement in inference. So
everyone has a very optimized inference
stack day one.
>> And they work with partners on it too.
>> Yeah. Working with partners on this. But
this is very interesting because like
when Deep Seeks drops it's like well
together in Fireworks are like yeah
we're the best at inference because we
have all these like people who are
really good at low-level coding. Whether
it be like fireworks with all their like
former PyTorch meta people or together
with like you know Tree Dow and all the
you know Danfu and all these like super
cracked like kernel people they have
like higher performance right uh but in
this case like open releasing a lot of
this stuff so it's it's it's it's
interesting for the inference providers
too like how do they differentiate now
>> yeah I I mean my premise on this is um
in the end a lot of the model
optimization performance layer is open-
source and it's a commodity Um a and it
will end up being like a fight at the
infrastructure level actually and so you
know all of these inference providers
like as you mentioned you know fireworks
and together and base 10 and such they
they compete on both dimensions and the
question is what's going to matter in
the long term
>> why would these model level software
optimizations all be open they haven't
been open so far and the advancements
are so fast right like
>> oh well I think that um a bunch of them
have been partially open and I think
open AI is also pushing for them to be
open as Right. Um and so I think there's
a lot of force in the ecosystem to um
open source from both like the NVIDIA
level up and from the model providers
down. Right. And so I think today these
providers all fight on that dimension.
>> Yeah.
>> And they also fight on the
infrastructure dimension. And I think
infrastructure is going to end up being
a bigger differentiator.
>> That makes sense.
>> You can't open source your actual
infrastructure, right? You just have to
have the network and you have to run it,
right?
>> Yeah. Yeah, that makes a lot of sense.
Although like I see today the inference
like providers have such a wide variance
right like the ones you mentioned are on
the like the leading edge especially
like together and fireworks I think are
on the leading edge of like their own
custom stacks all the way down to like
there's a lot of people who just take
the out-of-box open source software.
Yeah, I think there's no market for
that.
>> But those guys have just Yeah, I agree.
There's no market. It's like
commoditized. They have really really
way worse margins than the people who
are very optimized. When you see Nvidia
trying to open source all this stuff
around Dynamo and and OpenAI and all
these other people are trying to open
source stuff, but the level of
optimizations is also like really really
large like caching between turns and
caching tool use calls and all these
other things. And it's not just like a
single server problem like it's like the
deepseek implementation of inference is
like 160 GPUs or something like that
like that's over $10 million of hardware
and then that's just one replica and
then you'll have a lot of replicas and
you share the caching servers between
them. So like seems like just the
orchestration of that but also the
infrastructure of that it's a very large
amount of infrastructure. I don't know
that's interesting thought that that
would be completely commoditized
optimization layer. Well, I think that
there's optimization at the single node
level and then there's like the system
software where you can like orchestrate
this and and I think that owning the
abstractions for it and having people
use your tools and more sophisticated
teams to do that optimization is like
very ugly distributed systems problem. I
think that will matter.
>> Okay. Yeah, I I could agree with that. I
could agree with that single node is not
necessarily Yeah, I agree. let's move a
you know out and a layer down like what
does having access to an American open-
source model mean or just more and more
powerful like uh open source AI models
mean for the application ecosystem
>> I mean I know like a lot of people and
some enterprises are really iffy about
like using like the best open source
model they're like worried it's like
there's nothing wrong with them today
there's nothing in them today right you
know there's the worry that one day they
will
>> how do you check
>> I mean you don't like you can just vibes
it out like they're like competing with
each other to just released as fast as
possible, right? Like like Deepseek and
Moonshot and all these other you know
Alibaba, etc. Like they're competing to
release as fast as they can with each
other. The Alibaba teams in Singapore
like I don't think that they're like
putting Trojan horses in these models,
right? And like there's some interesting
papers that Enthropic did on like you
know trying to embed some stuff in
models and ended up like being
detectable pretty easily. again like I
don't know how to, you know, I'm not I'm
not too much into that space of
interpretability and like eval but I
just don't think that they are right.
It's just a vibes thing. But some people
are worried that they could be or
they're just like iffy like oh I don't
want to use a Chinese model. It's like
well fine but now you're going to go use
a service that is backed by a Chinese
model which is fine like you know like
uh but they you know they're fine with
that. They just don't want to directly
use the model. I don't know. I think I
think it's it's interesting for some
enterprises who are still stuck on mama,
but it's mostly just really interesting
because it continues to move the
commodity bar up now with this tier
being open source. And sure, like
probably won't be like drastically
better than Kimmy, but Kimmy is so big,
it's so difficult to run, like people
aren't running it, whereas the OpenAI
models is like relatively small, so you
can run it without being like gigabrain
at infrastructure. you end up with that
commoditizing so much more of the closed
source API market. I don't know. I think
that's just going to be great for
adoption, right? Like
>> yeah, one of my um hopes is uh for our
companies that are doing more with
reasoning, it is like they're still
blocked on cost and latency. So this is
something that I've found very
interesting is that when we we've been
trying to build a lot of alternative
data sources for token usage um who's
using what tokens what models where etc
why and it's very clear that people
aren't actually using the reasoning
models that much in API like anthropic
has eclipsed open and API revenue and
their API revenue is primarily not
thinking it's cloud 4 but it's not in
the thinking mode you know code is code
being the biggest uh use case that's
skyrocketing um and the same applies to
like OpenAI and and Deepbind and and
from what we see querying big users and
other ways of like scraping alternative
data because the latency issues because
the cost issues especially right the
cost is just ridiculous
>> you're exactly so I guess my view is um
you're not allowed to have a tech
podcast without saying the words Jevans
paradox now and I I think like I I think
the behavior is going to be like we see
a lot of people use reasoning because
it's so much cheaper to run if you take
out a big piece of the margin layer and
you make it smaller and so I think like
we have a lot of companies that are at
scale who are using it, but it's so
expensive that they restrain themselves.
>> For a long time, OpenAI was charging
more per token for the reasoning model,
right, 01 and 03, uh, than they were for
GPD40, even though the architecture is
like basically the same. It's just the
weights are different. And there's like
some reason for it to be a little bit
more expensive per token because the
context length is on average longer. But
in general, like it made no sense for it
to be like was it like 4x the cost per
token? That didn't make any sense. And
then finally, they like cut it. Uh but
for a long time, not only was it like
way more tokens outputed, it was also a
way higher price per token even though
and they were just taking that as margin
>> because they could, right? Because they
had the only thing out there.
>> Yeah. And then, you know, DeepSeek
dropped and and An Enthropic and Google
and others started releasing models and
it like, you know, commoditized quite a
bit, but this is going to just like
kneecap like like take cut everyone off
at the hip, right? Uh and bring margins
down again. So,
>> who has an API business, you mean?
>> Yeah. Yeah. For API for models that
aren't like like super leading edge.
What do you think uh evolves in the sort
of Neocloud layer over time?
>> It's funny. Every day we still find a
new Neocloud. Like we have like like 200
now and still every day we find new
ones, right? Like
>> should they all exist?
>> Obviously not, right? Like so so to some
extent it depends on what the NeoCloud
business is, right? Like today it's
there is quite a bit of differentiation
between the Neoclouds. It's not just
like buy a GPU, put it in a data center.
Otherwise, you wouldn't have some
NeoClouds with like horrible utilization
rate and you wouldn't have some
Neoclouds who are like completely sold
out on four, five, sixyear contracts,
right? Like Corweave, for example, who
doesn't even quote most startups or they
just give them a stupid quote because
they just like I don't want your
business or like they want a long-term
contract, right? Which a lot of people
don't want to sign. And so like there's
quite a bit of differentiation in in
financial performance of these Neil
clouds, time to deploy, reliability, the
software they're putting on top, right?
Like many of them can't even install
slurm for you. It's like what are you
doing? like and you should have some
sort of like
>> so very low level hardware management.
>> Yeah. Yeah. It's like very and it's like
to some extent from the investor side we
see a lot more debt and equity flowing
in from the commercial real estate folks
as commercial real estate has been
really poor over the last couple years,
few years. They've been starting to pour
money into cloud space and obviously the
return profile is quite different
because it's like a short-lived asset
versus like a longer lived asset. But at
the end of the day like these companies
they're okay with a 10 15% return on
equity, right? uh and and over time that
falling that is not okay for venture
capital, right? And yet a lot of these
Neil clouds are backed by venture
capital. So a lot of these companies
will fail either because it no longer
makes sense for them to continue to get
venture funding or they end up getting
out competed because they just can't get
their utilization up unlike you know
some other clouds right like like the
like the uh core weaves and crusos and
and such of the world right so there
there's sort of like a rock and a hard
place for a 100 of these Neil clouds and
and there's many of them who are like oh
no I purchased these GPUs I have a loan
it cost me this much and because my
utilization is here I'm like burning
cash,
>> right? And they should at the very least
not be burning cash, right? And so some
of them are like, you know, they're
desperate to sell the remaining GPUs, so
they go out to like, you know, companies
and give them insanely low deals. There
there's some startups who I really
commend because they've like really
figured out how to get the desperate
Neoclouds to give them GPUs, but those
Neoclouds are going to go bankrupt at
some point because their cash flow is
worse than their debt payment. But at
the end of the day, like there's going
to be a lot of consolidation. There is
going to be differentiation, right?
There's a lot of software today. Uh but
we have this like thing called
clusterbacks where we review all the
Neoclouds um and and major clouds and
it's like like actually some of these
NeoClouds are better than Amazon and
Google and Microsoft in terms of
software
>> in terms of um uptime and availability
or however you
>> yeah uptime availability um reliability
network performance like there's just a
variety of things that they don't have
all the old baggage but the vast
majority are worse and we we measure
across like you know a bunch of
different metrics including the ones I
mentioned and security and so on and so
forth but our vision of like cluster max
is that it starts at like a really low
stage today which is like does the cloud
work and how long does it take the user
to like get a workload running because
you have slurm installed or you have K
installed and um you know your network
performance is good and your reliability
is good and it's secure right like these
are like table stakes like what we
consider gold or platinum tier today
will be just like table stakes in like
you know six months a year a couple
years there'll be a whole layer of like
software on top and then it's like do
Neoclouds build this software Right. And
some of them are right like together
Nebius um are offering inference
services on top. Right? So they they're
saying, "Hey, we actually want to
provide an API endpoint, not just rent
GPUs." And core we've rumored by the
information to be uh attempting to buy
fireworks for the same reason, right?
Like do you move up or do you just slide
down into like I'm making commercial
real estate returns or you have to go
crazy, right? Like Crusoe is like we're
going to build gigawatt data centers,
right? Like okay, there's no competition
there. There's like a few companies
doing that, right? So it's very
different. So you either have to go like
really really big or you need to move
into the software layer or you just make
commercial real estate or you go
bankrupt, right? Like these are the
paths for all NeoClouds. I think
>> I really have to believe there's a a
reason for being for these companies.
And my like simple framework for it is I
think the software layer is really hard
for people coming from this operation to
to try and build, right? There's
actually a lot of very specialized
software. So I think people will buy or
partner into it. Yeah. But if you think
about other inputs, it could be like I'm
very good at like finding and
controlling power agreements, right? Um
it could be like I build at a scale
other people are incapable of doing so
as you mentioned
>> which is which is like sort of what like
>> or like wants me to exist, right? I
can't like think of like a lot of
arguments beyond that and so I I I would
agree with you like eventually we're
going to see consolidation uh either in
this layer or you know commoditization
by the inference providers. But in the
meantime, there is a lot of lunch to eat
from Amazon who continues to charge, you
know, really and and Google and and
Microsoft who continue to charge like
absurd margins for their compute because
they're just used to doing that in CPU
world.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. And so like their ROIC is like
extremely high on CPU and storage and
and to assume that it can like translate
over to GPUs is is a bit of a fallacy
and which is why which is why a lot of
these companies are moving in right and
it's like okay in standard cloud there's
a lot more software that like people
can't just build out of nowhere. Yes,
EC2 is a product that is like pretty
simple, but like block storage and all
these other things are actually quite
difficult to do at scale well like that
Amazon does and that's what makes them
able to charge this absurd margin on
standard compute. But now like it's like
well the cloud doesn't actually gener
create any software that the user end
user actually uses right it's like sure
I need summer kubernetes but then I'm
just using pietorrch which is open
source and I'm using a bunch of nvidia
software maybe or which is open source
or I'm using a bunch of open source
models I'm using you know v1 and sdglang
which are open source it's like you just
go down the list it's like there's
actually no software that the cloud can
provide to deserve the margins that
Amazon and Google's clouds do have today
if you're just infrastructure provider
>> I think that there is software that the
cloud can provide,
>> but the major clouds have not delivered
that software.
>> Agree. Agree.
>> Okay. Same same
>> because it's it's really hard to do this
stuff, right? Like there's no reason
that every single startup needs to have
like multiple people dedicated to infra
and like figuring out how to run models
and like their SLA their reliability is
just so low, right? Like so many so many
random SAS providers that are AI like
they they have GPUs, they have open
source model, it works great except
sometimes it fails and then it's down
for eight hours and it's like why? Uh
this shouldn't be a problem. It should
be something you should just be able to
pay away.
>> I mean, I I feel like the multi-trillion
dollar question that you um have thought
about for perhaps longer than um almost
anyone else is like what does it take to
actually challenge Nvidia? You know,
asking for a friend, what would it take?
>> The like, you know, simple way to put it
is like it's a three-headed dragon,
right? Like you have you have they're
actually just really really good at, you
know, engineering hardware and GPUs.
Like that is difficult. um they're
really really good at networking and
then they're really I would actually say
they're like okay at software but
everyone else is just terrible. No one
else is even close on software but you
know and I guess in that argument you
can say they're great at software but
like actually like you know installing
Nvidia drivers is not like not always
easy, right?
>> Well there's great and there's also just
like well there's like 20 years plus of
work in the ecosystem, right?
>> Yeah. There's today's capability and
like usability and there's just like
mass of like libraries.
>> Yeah. So I think Nvidia is really hard
to take down because of those three
reasons and it's like okay as a hardware
provider can I do the same thing as
Nvidia and win no they're an execution
machine and they have these three
different pillars right I'm sure they
have a lot of margin but like you have
to do something different right um in
the case of the hyperscalers right
Google uh with TPUs Amazon with Traia
meta with MTIA they are making a bet of
I can actually do something pretty
similar to Nvidia if you squint your
eyes now like Blackwell and TPU is
starting like the the Nvidia
architecture when TPU architectures are
actually converging like same memory
hierarchies and similar sizes of
systolic arrays like it's actually not
that different anymore it's still quite
different right but hand wave it's like
pretty similar and tranium and TPUs are
very similar architecturally the
hyperscalers are not doing anything
crazy but that's okay because they can
just like do the mass the margin game
that's fine but for a chip company to
try and compete they must do something
very unique now if you do something
unique it's like okay all your energy is
focused on that one unique thing but on
every other vector you're going to be
worse like are you going to be there at
the latest process node as fast as
Nvidia? No. Okay, that's like 20 30%
right on cost/performance and power,
right? Are you going to be on the latest
memory technology as fast as Nvidia? No,
you'll be like a year behind. Great.
Same same penalty. Are you going to be
the same on networking? No. Okay. You
know, you just stack all these penalties
up. It's like, oh wait, your unique
thing can't just be like two to fourx
faster. It has to be like way faster.
But then the problem is if you really
look at it simplistically, right? Like a
flop is a flop, right? Uh again like
this is super simple but like there is
not 10x you can get out of doing a
standard vonoyoman architecture on
efficiency of compute. Um, in which case
do all of these things that Nvidia will
engineer better than you because they
have a team of 50 people working on, you
know, just memory controllers and HBM
and just like act and networking or
actually like thousands of people
working on networking. But like each of
these things, do they just cut you by a
thousand and that's like, oh actually
what would have been 5x faster is now
only like 2x faster plus if I like
misstep I'm like six months behind and
now the new chip is there, right? And
you're screwed. So or or supply chain or
like intrinsic like challenges with okay
getting other people to deploy it now or
rack deployments. there's all these
supply chain challenges, right? Like
literally in Amazon's most recent
earnings, they said their like chip
architecture is not aggressive. Their
their rack architecture is very simple.
It's not that aggressive. They're like,
"Yeah, we have rack integration yield
issues, which is why we've had uh which
is they like blamed their miss on AWS
for their tradeium not coming online
fast enough because of rack integration
issues." And when you look at the
architecture, like we have an article on
it. It's like it's not like that crazy.
Like it's like what Google was doing
like four or five years ago, right? And
it's like, oh wait, supply chain is hard
and Amazon couldn't get everything in
supply chain to work. And so therefore,
they missed their AWS revenue by a few
percent. Right? Which caused the whole
stock market to freak out. But it's like
there's so many things that can go wrong
in hardware and the time scales are so
long. And then the last thing is that
like model architecture is not stagnant.
If it was, Nvidia would optimize for it,
but model architecture and hardware,
right? Software hardware codees is the
thing that matters, right? And these two
things, you can't just like look at one
in individual, right? Like there's a
reason why Microsoft's hardware programs
suck, right? Because they don't
understand models at all, right? Meta
Meta, their chips actually work for
recommendation systems and they're
deployed for recommendation systems
because they can do hardware, software
codees. Google's awesome because they do
hardware, software, codees. Uh why is
AMD not catching up despite being
awesome at hardware engineering? Well,
yeah, they're bad at networking, but
also they suck at software and they
can't do hardware, software codees. You
know, there's like much deeper reasons
why you can get into this, but you have
to understand the hardware and the
software and they move in lock step.
whatever your optimization is doesn't
end up working right so one example is
all of the first wave AI company AI
hardware companies right Cerebrus Grock
uh Samba nova u graph core all of them
made a very similar bet no they were
very different right
>> some of these are architecturally pretty
weird relative
>> right they're architecturally pretty
weird but they made the same bet on
memory versus compute right we're going
to have more onchip memory and lower
bandwidth right offchip right because
that was the trade-off they decided to
So all of them had way more on chip
memory u than Nvidia right Nvidia their
their onchip memory has not really grown
much from A100 H100 Blackwell right it's
up 30% in like three generations whereas
these guys had like 10x the onchip
memory right all the way back in like a
when they were competing with A100 or
even the generation before but that
ended up being a problem because they
were like oh yeah we could just run the
model on the chip right we can put the
whole weight all the weights on there
and then you know we'll be so much more
efficient and then the models just got
way too big right and cerebr was like,
"Oh, wait, but our ship is huge." Yeah.
Oh, wait. But still the model's way too
big to fit on it. This is like very
simple, right? You know, the same
thing's happening in the other
direction, right? Like some companies
are like, "Oh, we're going to make our
like systolic array, your computer unit,
super super super large because let's
say llama 70B is an 8K hidden dimension
and your batch and all that." Like it's
it's a pretty large maple. Oh, great.
Okay, we'll make this chip. And then all
of a sudden all the models get super
super sparse,
>> right? Like the hidden dimension of
deepseeks models are like really tiny
because they have a lot of experts,
right? Instead of one large map, it's a
bunch of small ones. You do route route,
right? Like and all of a sudden like if
I made a really really large hardware
unit, but I have all these small
experts. How am I going to run it
efficiently? You know, I I no one they
didn't really predict that the hardware
would go that way, but then it ended up
going that way. And this is like this is
actually the case with at least two of
the AI hardware companies today. I don't
want to I don't want to shut them just
because, you know, it's a let's be
friendly. Uh but like this is like like
clearly like what's happening right? So
it's like you can make a decision. It's
a hardware bet that will actually be way
better on today's architectures, but
then architecture evolves in the
generality of like Nvidia's GPUs or even
like TPUs and trade is like more general
than like as an architecture, but then
it doesn't beat Nvidia by that much,
right? In which case they're just going
to destroy you with they're six months
or a year ahead on every technology
because they have more people working on
it and their supply chain is better,
right? So you you you it's kind of
really tough to make the architecture
bet, have the models not just go in a
different direction that no one
predicted because no one knows where
models are headed, right? Even like, you
know, you could get Greg Brockman and he
might like have like a good idea, but
like I'm sure he doesn't even know where
models will look like in two years. So
there's got to be a level of generality
and it's hard to like hit that
intersection properly. And so I'm very
hopeful people compete with Nvidia. Um I
think it'll be a lot more fun. There'd
be a lot less margin eaten up by the
infra. There'd just be a lot more
deployment of AI potentially um if
someone was able to compete with Nvidia
effectively. But Nvidia charges a lot of
money because they're the best and like
if there was something better, people
would use it, but there isn't. And it's
just really hard to get be better than
them.
>> I mean, you have to give the first gen
AI hardware companies some credit
because they like made a secular correct
decision about the workload, but then
the architectural decisions like ended
up being hard to predict correctly,
right? Then you have the cycle of Nvidia
innovation which is really hard to
compete with. Y um both hardware and
also as you said supply chain issues.
>> Even just putting together servers is
hard.
>> Yes. Um I think the thing that you point
out that like people oversimplified was
with maybe a current generation of AI
chip startups. They're like we're
betting on transformers. And it's a lot
more complicated than that in terms of
like workload at scale and continued
evolution in model architecture. And
it's also not exposed so that if you're
not working with the soda labs at like
from the beginning and then you can't
make predictions because nobody can make
a lot of predictions right now. It's
very hard to like say I'm going to be
better at the workload two years from
now in a like a very comfortable way.
>> Yeah.
>> With no other changes happening like I
can't make that bet right now.
>> Yeah. And it's like one of the
interesting things about OpenAI's open
source models, it's like all their
training pipelines but on a quite boring
architecture, right? like it's not their
crazy like cool architecture advantages
that they have in their closed source
models which are make it better for long
contexts or more efficient KV cache or
all these other things right they're
doing it on a standard model
architecture that's publicly available
they like intentionally made the
decision to open source a model with a
boring architecture that's pretty much
open source right already like people
have already done all these things and
kept all the secrets internal that they
wanted to keep and it's like what's
what's in there right are they even
doing standard scale product attention
probably, but like there's probably a
lot of weird things they're doing which
don't map directly to hardware and like
you mentioned, right? Like transformer
chip architecture is like there's a lot
more complicated here than just like oh
it's optimized for transformers because
like so is an Nvidia chip and a TPU and
their next generation is more optimized
for it. Like they take steps towards it.
They don't leap but as long as they're
like close enough to where you are
architecturally optimized for workload,
they'll beat you because of all the
other reasons. And I think your
description of like how might a like a
chip startup win or any vendor win by
specializing like that actually is
really hard in this era like
generalization may continue to win to a
degree
>> and it happened with all the edge
hardware companies too. You know, we
talk about the firstg AI hardware
companies for data center. There were a
handful, but for the edge, there were
like 40, 50 and like none of them are
winning because it turns out the edge is
just take a Qualcomm chip or an Intel
chip that's made for PC or smartphone
and deploy it on the edge, right? Like
that ended up being way more meaningful.
So, so it ends up being like the
incumbents, they can take steps towards
what you're going for and if you didn't
execute perfectly or if the models
didn't change the architecture away from
what you thought it would be, you end up
failing.
>> If you had to make a bet that something
becomes competitive, what is the
configuration or company type that that
does that?
>> I don't want to show any company that
I've invested in or anything like that.
And so therefore, not investment advice.
No, no, but like I' like I like I would
just say like I probably think that like
AMD GPUs or Amazon's Tranium will be
probably more likely to be a best second
choice for people or Google TPU of
course, but I think Google's just more
interested in it for internal workloads.
I I just think that those will be much
more likely options uh to succeed than a
chip hardware startup. Yeah, but I mean
I really hope they do because there's
some really cool stuff they're doing. If
we zoom out to um the macro and we think
about just the scale of um hardware and
data center deployment for these
workloads, people talk a lot about the
operational constraint on building data
centers of this size. The uh power
constraints I think in particular on the
power side it's very interesting how
that practically shows up. Is it
generation at scale at cost? Is it grid
issues? This is a like how how should
you know more people in technology
understand this?
>> Yeah. So supply chain is always like fun
because like people want to point at one
thing is the issue. Um but always ends
up being these things are so complicated
like if one thing was solved you could
increase production another 20% and then
something else would be the issue.
>> You think it's a multi-bottleneck issue?
>> Yeah. Or like hey for company A it's
actually because their supply chain is
this this is the issue and for company B
it's this is the issue. But, you know,
that's sort of in generalities, but like
I think zooming out, right? Like Noah
Noah opinion like he had a really fun
blog about like is this AI hardware
buildout going to cause a recession? I I
think it's actually funny because you
could flip the statement and be like
actually the US economy would not be
growing that much this year if it
weren't for all the AI buildouts and as
a result data center infrastructure. As
a result, electricians wages have
soared. As a result, power deployments
and other capital investments which have
15 30-year lifespans are being made and
all of this capex is in turn actually
growing the economy. And like actually
maybe the economy wouldn't even be
growing much or at all if it weren't for
all of these investments.
>> One thing that is perhaps looked over
from the um White House AI action plan
was the view of like we're going to
build these AI data centers in the
United States. we're actually going to
need like a lot of general investment
beyond the GPUs and the power which are
everybody's first two items into like
labor for example right so if you just
you know for simplicity sake be like
it's the size of Manhattan and we have
to run it and it's a new system with
changing topology and like very high
degree of relatively novel hardware with
failure yeah and like lots of networking
that I'm like like kind of feels like we
need to have a bunch of new capacity
like from a labor or robotics In like 23
it was very simple. It's like Nvidia
can't make enough chips. Okay, why can't
Nvidia make enough chips? Oh, co-ass
right? Chip on wafron substrate
packaging technology. And I was like oh
HBM, right? Like those were like it was
like very simple 23 24 like yeah all
these tools involved in that supply
chain. It was great but then it like
very quickly became much more murky,
right? Then I was like oh data centers
are the issue.
>> Oh okay, we'll just build a lot of data
centers. Oh wait, substation equipment
and transformers are the issue. Oh wait,
power generation is the issue. It's not
like the other issues went away, right?
Like actually, you know, cos uh is still
a bottleneck and HBM is still a
bottleneck. Optical transceivers are
still a bottleneck, but so is power
generation and data center physical real
estate, right? Like I mentioned like
Meta is literally building these like
temporary like tent structures to put
GPUs in because building the building
takes too long and it takes too much
labor, right? As you mentioned, labor,
right? That's like one way they were
able to remove a part of a constraint.
They're still constrained on power and
they had to delay the uh bring up of
some GPUs in Ohio because the a grid in
Ohio like had some issues, right? The
utility, right? Uh with like bringing on
a generator or something, right? Oh,
okay, great. Uh well, we'll buy our own
generators and put them on site. Oh,
wait. Now there's an eight-year backlog
or whatever, four-year backlog for G's
turbines.
>> Yeah.
>> Oh, okay. Um I'm I'm Elon. I'm going to
buy a power plant from overseas that's
already existing. I'm going to move it
in. Okay, great. Now, there's like
permits and people protesting against me
in Memphis. Like, you know, there's like
there's like a bajillion things that
could go wrong. And labor is a huge one.
I've literally had people in pitches be
like, "No, no, no. We've already booked
all the contractors, so no one else is
going to be able to build a data center
in this entire area of this magnitude
besides us
>> because we took all the people.
>> We took all the people. They're going to
have to fly them in." But it's like,
okay, fine. Like, you can fly them in,
but it's like there's just like not that
many electricians in America. And as a
result, we've seen the wages rise a lot
for people building data center infra.
There's a group of like these Russian
guys who used to work for Yandex,
Russia's search engine, who like wire up
data centers who now live in America and
they get paid a ton like and they get
paid bonuses for being faster and
therefore they do like certain drugs to
be able to finish the buildouts faster
because they get bonuses based on how
fast they build it, right? Like it's
like there is crazy stuff going on to
alleviate bottlenecks, but it's like
there's bottlenecks everywhere. And it
really just takes a really really hyper
competent organization tackling each of
these things and creatively thinking
about each of these things because if
you do it the layman old way, you're
going to you're going to lose and you're
going to like you're going to be too
slow, right? Which is why OpenAI and
Microsoft partially like Microsoft is
not building Stargate for OpenAI, right?
It's because it would have just been too
slow and they're doing it the lame and
old way. You have to go crazy. You have
to go That's why Microsoft rents from
Core Wee a ton, right? because oh wait
we we we need someone who can do things
faster than us and oh look corweave is
doing it faster and now like you know
open is like going to Oracle and
Cororeweave and and others right Ncale
in Finland and all these other companies
all around the world the Middle East
right G42 like anywhere and everywhere
they can get compute because you put
your eggs in many baskets and whoever
executes the best will win and this
infrastructure is very very hard
software is like fast turnaround times
like you know it's it's still hard
software is not easy but it's like the
cycle time is very fast for like Try
something, fail, right? Try something
else. It is not for infra, right? Like
what has XAI actually done to deserve
their prior funding rounds? They haven't
released a leading edge model, right?
And yet their valuation's higher than
Enthropic today, right? At least, you
know, Enthropic's raising, but whatever,
right? Like it's Elon A. And B, they've
tackled a problem creatively and done it
way faster than anyone else, which is
building Colossus, right? Like, and
that's like commendable because that is
part of the equation of being the best
at models, right?
>> Yeah. Besides the talent. Yeah.
>> Yeah. And and Elon is like known for
being able to get talent. So, it's like
it's like there's there's so much
complicated on the infra that, you know,
it'd be nice to say there's one thing,
but yeah, like the White House action
plan lists a lot of things, but I want
like, you know, how do we concretely
like solve the talent issue? It's like
there's not enough people in trade
school. The pay will go up and that'll
help, but the time scales in that are
too slow. Like, do we somehow import
labor? Right? That's how the Middle East
is building all their data centers.
They're just importing labor. Or is
there something more intelligent we
could do? Robotics, right? Right. I
think I I I just realized today you told
me just now like a company I seen or I
angel invested in you led the round,
right? Like it's really cool for data
center optim u automation, right? Like
there's all sorts of like interesting
problems on the infra layer that could
be tackled uh and tackled creatively.
Speaking of like the policy and
geopolitics implication here, like what
do you think about the, you know, White
House um implication that America needs
to like export the AI stack or like
needs to control important components of
it? Like it's better for us to be
exporting Nvidia chips than to foster a
new industry. It's better for us to have
like a globally leading open-source
model, etc. Like what actually makes
sense to you there?
>> I want to tell a crazy story. I was in
Lebanon. Okay. uh for a week. It
>> was a good start.
>> This is completely unrelated, but it
just popped in my head. I think it'll be
entertaining. I was in Lebanon. I was
with a few of my friends. Uh so like two
Indian people, two Chinese people, and
then a Lebanese person, right? Um and
these like 12-year-old girls right up to
the Chinese woman that was with us, like
my friend, and they were like, "Oh my
god, your skin's so beautiful. Do you
like sushi?" Right? And it's like,
"Fine, you're just ignorant." But what
was really interesting is like when they
asked where we're from, we're like San
Francisco. They're like, "Do people get
shot in the streets?" because their
entire worldview was built from Tik Tok,
>> okay,
>> of politics. And it's like when you
think about the global propaganda
machine that is Hollywood and it's not
intentional, it's just American media is
pervasive. It built such a positive
image of America. Now like with
monoculture broken and it's more social
media based. A lot of the world thinks
America is like people are getting shot
all the time and it's like really bad
and it's like bad lives and people are
working all the time. It's unsafe and
like you know like Europe has a certain
view of America and like I don't think
it's accurate. like random Lebanese
12-year-old had a really negative view
of some like they liked America. They
loved Target for some reason because
some influencers posted Tik Toks about
Target, but like they had negative views
of America. It's like
>> from a sense of like what is important
is like the world should still run on
American technology, right? And they
generally do still in terms of the web,
although you know, bite dance Tik Tok
has broken that to a large degree. But
in this next age, do you want them to
run on Chinese models which now have
Chinese values which then spread Chinese
values to uh the world or do you want
them to have American models that have
American values like you talk to Claude
and has a worldview, right? And it's
like I don't know if you want to call
that propaganda or what there's a
worldview that you're pushing, right?
And so I think it makes sense that we
need that worldview espouseed now. How
do you do that, right? The prior
administration, current administration
had different viewpoints on this, right?
Pride administration said, "Yes, we
would love for the whole world to use
our chips, but it has to be run by
American companies." And so it was like,
"Microsoft, Oracle, we're cool with you
building shitloads of capacity in
Malaysia. We don't want random other
companies doing it in Malaysian." So the
prior diffusion rule had a lot of
technical ways in which like, you know,
you could be you could have these like
licenses and all this. And it was very
hard for like random small companies to
build large GPU clusters, right? But it
was very easy for Microsoft and Oracle
to do it in in Malaysia. Of course, the
current administration tore that up and
they have their own view on things. I I
I mean, I think there was a lot of
things wrong with the diffusion rules,
right? They were just too complicated.
They pissed a lot of people off, etc.
Now, they have a different view, which
is like what did they do in the Middle
East, right? With the deal they signed.
Well, actually, most of those GPUs are
being operated by American companies or
rented to American companies, right?
Either or, right? like G42 operating
them but renting them mostly to like
OpenAI and such for a large part or
Amazon and Oracle and others are
operating the GPUs themselves in the
Middle East. So it's like okay that's
effectively the same thing but in a very
different way. That is still I think a
view right which is like we want America
to be as high in the value stack as
possible right if we can sell tokens or
if we can sell services we should
>> okay but if we can't sell the service
let's at least sell them tokens okay we
can't sell them tokens at least sell
them like infra right um whether it be
data centers or renting GPUs or just the
GPUs physically um and it sort of like
makes sense right in the value chain
like give them the highest value highest
margin thing where we capture most of
the value and like squeeze it down to
where like actually for like the bottom
of the stack, right? Like the tools to
make chips, maybe you shouldn't sell.
And so like ex current export controls
and policy dictate that. Yes, you know,
it's better to sell them services, but
sell them both, right? Like give the
option, let us compete. Uh and don't let
anyone else win. I think the challenge
here is that like how much are you
enabling China by selling them their
RGPUs? Like how much fear-mongering
around like Huawei's production capacity
is there? like how realistic it is it
versus not because of the bottlenecks of
like Korea sanctions that America's made
Korea put on China for memory or Taiwan
on China for uh chips or you know US
equipment on China right like there's a
lot of different sanctions many of these
are not well enforced slash have holes
but it's sort of like a it's a very
difficult argument on like how much
capacity of GPUs should be sold to China
a lot of people in San Francisco frankly
don't sell at China any GPUs but then
they cut off rare earth minerals and you
know like obstensively most people think
that like the deal was that you get you
get GPUs and also EDA software because
the administration banned EDA software
for a little bit just for like a few
weeks basically until China was like
okay we'll ship rare earth minerals you
can't just ban everything because China
can retaliate if they banned rare earth
minerals and magnets and such car
factories in America would have shut
down and the entire supply chain there
would have had like hundreds of
thousands of people not working right
like you know like there is like
>> there is a push forward Yeah,
>> there's a push and pull here. So, like,
do I think China should just have the
best Nvidia GPUs? No. Like, that that
would suck. But like, you know, can you
give them no GPUs? No, they're going to
retaliate. Like, there is a middle
ground. And like, Huawei is eventually
going to have a lot of production
capacity, but there's ways to slow them
down, right? Like, properly ban the
equipment because it's not there's a lot
of loopholes there. Uh, properly ban the
subcomponents of like of memory and
wafers because Huawei is still getting
uh, you know, wafers in Taiwan from TSMC
through like shell companies, right?
like it's like you know there there's a
lot of enforcement challenges because
parts of the government are not like
funded properly or not competent enough
and has never been competent right so
it's like how do you work within this
framework well like okay fine we should
sell them some GPUs so that they you
know that kind of slows them down on a
Huawei standpoint although not really
right uh but also like gets us back the
rare earth minerals but don't sell them
too many right like how do you find that
massive gray line is what the
administration's grappling with in my
view
>> implied in that opinion in is your
belief of they are going to be able to
build Nvidia equivalent GPUs eventually
if forced
>> maybe not equivalent
>> sorry price performance competitive
>> there's like interesting things here
right like if China has a chip that
consumes 3x the power
>> but they have 4x the power then
>> yeah like who cares right like you know
obviously there's a lot of supply chain
challenges with building that and it's
like hey maybe it's on n minus2
technology it's on 5-year-old technology
or four-y old technology great um and it
only consumes 3x the power because they
were able to do a lot software
optimization, architecture optimization,
etc. They end up with something that
maybe cost a little bit more, but like
when you think about the value of a GPU
today, right? Like you know the GPUs
dominate the cost of everything. Uh but
over time services will be built out
which are high margin, right? Like and
you can go look at Enthropic or OpenAI
fundraising docs and like see that their
API margins are good. API margins are
nothing compared to what service margins
will be for people who use these APIs to
build services. And that's nothing
compared to the like net good to the
economy from how much automation can
happen and how much increased economic
activity there is. So this is the
argument of like okay even if their
chips cost 3x as much do you
>> they can subsidize that rationally.
>> They can subsidize that rationally
because the end goal is like oh wait
actually we can deploy a lot of Chinese
AI and make money and gather data
because people are sending us their like
prompts and all their data bases and all
this stuff to our models controlled by
our companies etc. Right? Um, plus we're
just making money off of it. And they've
done this in other industries, right?
They rationally subsidize like solar and
now no one can even compete on solar or
EV and it's like very close to no one
could compete on EVs even, right?
Besides like Tesla really. And even
Tesla's adopting a lot of like Chinese
supply chain, right? It is rational to
say you want to have America have more
AI prowess around the world, you know,
so that random child in Lebanon doesn't
think America is like bad or they're
using American products more than China,
Chinese products. But like how you get
there is very difficult and it's a it's
it's a hard thread to weave.
>> Thread. You got it.
>> I don't croquet, you know.
>> Oh my god. Crochet.
>> Crochet. There we go.
>> You clearly don't.
>> Croquet is the
>> amazing croquet is the game. Um I want
to ask you like a wild card question to
uh finish out. Um we're trying to get
Mark to do the podcast.
>> Zuck.
>> Yes. Uh you can ask him any question.
What would you ask Mark? You got to do
the podcast.
>> I thought like the like did you read the
doc the page they put up? I thought that
was very interesting that they were
like, "We want AI to be your companion."
So my question to him is not like around
his infra stuff because I feel like I
know most everything like you can figure
that stuff out from supply chain and
like satellites and all this stuff, but
like the interesting thing I'm curious
about is philosophically what exactly
like does the world look like? If
everyone is talking to AIS more than
other people or if they're interacting
socially with the AIS more than other
people, do we lose our human element? Do
we lose our human connection? It's not
the same thing as hey I'm posting on
social media and we're interacting with
their social media posts which that
already breaks the brain of a lot of
people. What happens when it's like
always on your face like met you know
his worldview is like meta reality labs
makes these like devices that you wear
and they're always they have all this AI
on them and you're talking to the AI
companion all the time. How does that
change the human psyche like this human
machine evolution like is what are the
negative ramifications of it? What are
the positive ramifications? How do we
how are you going to make sure that
there's more positive ramifications from
this than like you know the
sloppification and like complete brain
rot of like our youth right which I I
like love my brain rot right like it's
like okay
>> obviously the coding wars continue to be
like very central
>> and we were talking about cognition's
relevance and like how how to think
about the strategy here but I do think
it's really funny what flipped your bit
on cognition can you tell the story I
>> I thought cognition NGMI, right? Like,
you know, like OpenAI,
Enthropic, XA, etc. They're just going
to make better code models like you
know, they just have way more resources.
General models will win, you know,
hadn't really met too many people there.
It was just like a pure vibes based
thing. And I, you know, I'd used a
little bit of of Devon, but it was like
whatever, right? Like it was like cloud
code seems better and we use that
internally. But like I went to KTO's
East meets West event. It's awesome
event where there's people from Asia.
like there was like you know all these
like CFOs and CEOs of like major Chinese
companies uh east coast of US all these
finance bros also west coast like a lot
of tech people right so you and I were
both there there were people from
governments and major companies and
Scott was there um I spoke with them
like very briefly but then what was
interesting is like it's like you know
they have a poker night one night and
everyone gets blasted the the like
leader of co is very good at poker hedge
fund guys are just good at poker
generally people like poker as well you
know there's a big poker culture in the
bay Okay, I was playing. I'm okay,
right? Um, but I see I see I look over
at the super high stakes table. Scott's
just dominating everyone, right? I'm
like, what is going on? Like, how are
you like you're like taking chips from
like CEO of major Chinese company? I
don't want to name people's names
because I think there's like some terms
around them like naming who's there, but
like, you know, it's like you're you're
like winning like a lot of chips from a
lot of big people. And it's like all of
a sudden my vibes were like, I don't
know, maybe like maybe he can win, maybe
he can take from the lion, you know. Uh,
so I was like very excited about that.
You know, I thought it was funny. I
still have zero like I I have not done
much due diligence on their code product
like you know like it's like nor have I
on like cloud code besides the fact that
we use it but it's like you know cool.
>> Well I think wind surf acquisition part
two is like a a pretty good hand to play
here. Um and uh you know as somebody who
invests a lot at a you know violently
competitive application level.
>> Yeah.
>> Poker game is live man. Everybody there
you just invest in live players.
Exactly. And it's I I just loved that,
you know, that was how he uh he
dominated everyone. It's like it's like
it's such a stupid reason because I
pride myself on being analytical and
like data driven. And it's like, you
know, vibes.
>> Correct. For any entrepreneurs
listening, I think like you know, Dylan
might angel invest or we might back you
fully if you if you win the cognition
poker game. Uh and we'll host at
Conviction. Um okay, we got it. Good.
Awesome.
>> Yeah. Thank you.
Find us on Twitter at no prior pod.
Subscribe to our YouTube channel if you
want to see our faces. Follow the show
on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or wherever
you listen. That way, you get a new
episode every week. And sign up for
emails or find transcripts for every
episode at no-bers.com.